# 7036
NLP project in bitcoin price prediction

The cryptocurrency market has expanded rapidly, from 5 million owners in 2016 to over 300 million owners by 2021. However, it involves risk factors to invest in cryptocurrencies as the market can be subject to extreme volatility (Rejeb et al., 2021). For instance, in 2022, Bitcoin lost more than 60% of its value, putting investors in a difficult position. The cryptocurrency market has no central governing authority (Grant and Hogan, 2015), so the prices can fluctuate based on various factors, such as the sentiment of the public, natural disasters in a country, and global news. However, there are two benefits of cryptocurrencies that are important for potential investors, namely, diversification and inflation protection. As claimed by Corbet et al. (2019), cryptocurrencies can offer investors diversification from conventional financial assets such as stocks and bonds since the prices are not associated with other markets, making them a suitable source for portfolio diversification. Investing in a portfolio of assets with low price correlation will help investors produce more consistent returns. In addition, Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies can provide protection against inflation. There is a hard cap for Bitcoin on the total number of coins ever minted (Farell, 2015). Thus, with the growth of the money supply exceeding the growth of the Bitcoin supply, the price of Bitcoin is supposed to rise. Accordingly, it is meaningful to study the price movements of Bitcoin.
The aim of the project is to investigate whether the sentiment of Federal Reserve speeches can produce accurate predictions about the future price fluctuations of Bitcoin. In order to address it, recurrent neural networks (RNN) and a dual-model approach are employed in the project. Specifically, the first step is to apply pre-trained datasets (FiQA and FinancialPhraseBank) for sentiment analysis to determine the sentiment score. Then, Bitcoin price fluctuations are determined by incorporating sentimental factors, which are positive and negative scores.
